Docs/cluster peering 1.15 updates (#16291)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/connect/cluster-peering/index.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Cluster Peering Overview
description: >-
  Cluster peering establishes communication between independent clusters in Consul, allowing services to interact across datacenters. Learn how cluster peering works, its differences with WAN federation for multi-datacenter deployments, and how to troubleshoot common issues.  
---

# Cluster peering overview

> This topic provides an overview of cluster peering, which is a process that connects two or more independent clusters so that services deployed to different partitions or datacenters can communicate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This topic provides an overview of cluster peering, which lets you connect two or more independent Consul clusters so that services deployed to different partitions or datacenters can communicate.
```

Cluster peering is enabled in Consul by default. For specific information about cluster peering configuration and usage, refer to following pages.

> **Reference information:**

Reviewer: I would actually change the order of this to the following. this would be more in line with the user journey (beginning to advanced)

```
Tutorials > Usage (runtime specific Kubernetes) > Reference 
```

also, i would combine the kubernetes with the usage one (bold the Kubernetes). this makes it clear that the kubernetes content is in usage

Reviewer: on a second read, i think Usage and Reference might be more useful after the background?

- [HTTP API reference: `/peering/` endpoint](/consul/api-docs/peering)
- [CLI reference: `peering` command](/consul/commands/peering).

> - [Cluster peering technical specifications](/docs/consul/cluster-peering/configuration)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Cluster peering technical specifications](/docs/consul/connect/cluster-peering/configuration)
```

**Usage information:**

> - [Establish cluster peering connections](/docs/connect/cluster-peering/create-manage-peering)
> - [Manage cluster peering connections](/consul/docs/cluster-peering/usage/manage-connections)
> - [L7 traffic management for cluster peering connections](/consul/docs/cluster-peering/usage/peering-traffic-management)

Reviewer: some of these links are wrong, can you verify that all cluster peering links start wtih `/consul/docs/connect`?

```suggestion
- [Establish cluster peering connections](/consul/docs/connect/cluster-peering/create-manage-peering)
- [Manage cluster peering connections](/consul/docs/connect/cluster-peering/usage/manage-connections)
- [L7 traffic management for cluster peering connections](/consul/docs/connect/cluster-peering/usage/peering-traffic-management)
```

**Runtime-specific information:**

> - [Cluster peering on Kubernetes](/consul/docs/cluster-peering/usage/k8s)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Cluster peering on Kubernetes](/consul/docs/connect/cluster-peering/usage/k8s)
```

**Tutorials:**

> - To learn how to peer clusters and connect services across peers in AWS Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) environments, complete the [Consul Cluster Peering on Kubernetes tutorial](/consul/tutorials/developer-mesh/cluster-peering-aws).

Reviewer: this is both AWS and GKE (Google Cloud), also we updated the link

https://developer.hashicorp.com/consul/tutorials/developer-mesh/cluster-peering

## Background

Consul supports cluster peering connections between two [admin partitions](/consul/docs/enterprise/admin-partitions) _in different datacenters_. Deployments without an Enterprise license can still use cluster peering because every datacenter automatically includes a default partition. Meanwhile, admin partitions _in the same datacenter_ do not require cluster peering connections because you can export services between them without generating or exchanging a peering token.

The following diagram describes Consul's cluster peering architecture.

> ![Diagram of cluster peering with admin partitions](/img/cluster-peering-diagram.png)

Reviewer: the mesh gateway icons are bigger than the other icons, the consul servers are smaller than the other icons

can we make the squares more consistent?
